Lab02 - Server 2019, ADDS and DNS

Server 2019
    Find and edit the virtual machine properties for ad01 by switching the network adapter to LAN

Host and Network Configuration
    Click Local Server --> Ethernet --> IPv4 Settings
    IP Address:  10.0.5.5
    Netmask: 255.255.255.0
    Gateway 10.0.5.2 (Make sure fw01 is running).
    DNS 10.0.5.2
    Discoverable option.  If this dialog shows up, select Yes for those systems on your LAN.
    Time should be set to UTC-5:00 Eastern Time (US & Canada)
    Computer name:  ad01-yourname (make sure you get this right). 

Check Networking
    Using a command or powershell prompt, double check that your hostname has been set and that you have external connectivity as shown below.
        whoami
        ping google.com

Installing the ADDS Role
    Open Server Manager.  From the Manage menu, Select Add Roles and Features
        The following screenshots/instructions will show only those screens where non-default configuration is required.
            Select Active Directory Domain Services->Add Features.  Pick Active Directory Domain Services:
            Choose the restart destination server option and select yes on the confirmation dialog.  

Promotion
    After installation, we need to configure our server to be the primary domain controller for our domain (yourname.local).Select the link to Promote this server to a domain controller. Make absolutely sure you have set the hostname before moving forward with promoting this system.
    We are going to create a new forest. Name this forest yourname.local, where yourname is your first name.


DNS Error
    Installation will take a few minutes and a reboot. When you log back in, you will be logging in as the Domain Administrator (with credentials in Active Directory) as opposed to the Local Administrator (credentials stored locally & not in an AD domain).

DNS
    After installation and a lengthy reboot, you will find that your ad01 server's network configuration has changed somewhat.  Your DNS server now points to 127.0.0.1 (which is the local loopback adapter for ad01), and DNS queries not handled locally are forwarded to fw01 which will in turn forward to its DNS Server.
        hostname
        ping 10.0.5.2
        ping fw01-name

Adding a DNS Record
    The following commands run from ad01 show that we cannot access fw01 by name and only by IP address. We are going to create a DNS record on our server such that anyone using ad01 as a DNS server (including itself) can resolve the domain name fw01.yourname.local to 10.0.5.2.

DNS Manager
    Find and invoke DNS Manager from the Server Manager/DNS/AD01 context menu

Forward Lookup Zone - yourname.local
    Find and expand the forward lookup zone for your new domain
    You should have an entry for ad01.yourname. This allows you to ping ad01 by hostname and/or domain name. We are going to add an entry for fw01
    From the DNS Manager, select New Host (A or AAAA name):
    Add a reference to fw01, go ahead and check "Create associated (PTR) record"
    When your host is added, the capability to resolve a host by its hostname is enabled.  The reverse is not true.  We cannot get a hostname by IP address until we create a reverse lookup zone.

Reverse DNS
    Add a reverse primary lookup for all IP addresses in the 10.0.5.0/24 Network by selecting the New Zone options from the right-click context menu as shown below.  Use the defaults, and add a Network ID for 10.0.5.
    Create a new PTR record from the A record of fw01-yourname and ad01-yourname by unchecking, applying checking the update PTR record check box and re-applying fw01's properties.
    The reverse dns entry for fw01 and ad01 should now be in the 5.0.10 reverse lookup zone. You may need to refresh the view:

Create Named Domain Users on ad01
    It is very easy to become confused between local accounts on either WKS1 and AD01 and domain accounts that are available on every system in the domain.  We are going to create a named domain administrator account as well as a named non-privileged user account.  
    💡 Shared accounts like "Administrator" defeat the principle of accountability, and should be avoided after installation and configuration at all cost!
    On AD01, find the Active Directory Users and Computers option.
    Under the Domain's user folder, add a new User.
    This user (first.lastname-adm) will be a Domain Administrator and will have a distinct suffix (ADM) to show this.
    Uncheck user must change password at next login.
    Add this user to the Domain Admins Group
    Create a non-privileged account (Skip the addition to Domain Admins) for user first.lastname
    From this point forward you will login using your first.lastname or first.lastname-adm account depending on the privileges you need.

Preparing wks01 to join yourname.local
    Set wks01's DNS to 10.0.5.5 (ad01's address).
      💣 This is important: Anytime you have a new system that needs to join the domain, it needs to refer to the domain’s DNS server.  This concept may trip you up in follow on assessments if you neglect this …
    Now that you are using your new DNS server, we can attempt to ping by hostname.  The following screen shows that you should be able to do a reverse lookup to fw01's PTR record using nslookup.  You can also ping by fully qualified hostname.  You cannot ping by the unqualified "fw01" hostname because we are not a domain joined system yet nor do we have a DNS suffix configured for yourname.local on wks01.
        hostname
        whoami
        ping fw01-name
        nslookup 10.0.5.2
        nslookup fw01-name.name.local
        ping fw01-name.name.local
    Let’s ping the domain itself.

Joining WKS01 to your new domain
    If you haven't changed the hostname from the random assigned hostname, do so now.  Call it wks01-yourname.
    If everything went well, you will be prompted for an administrator password. Use the one you just created on AD01. You should have been successfully welcomed to the yourname domain.
    Restart wks01 now.



Deliverable 1:  On AD01 Find the Active Directory Users and Computers App on AD01, provide a screenshot showing a that WKS01 has been successfully added to the domain.

💡 Though you may be tempted, do not add entries to "Computers" manually.  AD will add them automatically when a successful join has been made.


Deliverable 2.  On AD01 Select the two new users you have added and provide a screenshot.

After the WKS01 has been joined to the Domain, we need to make sure we login to the system using our newly minted regular domain user credentials (and not the -adm account).  Make sure you are signing into your Domain and not the local workstation.


Deliverable 3.  From powershell or a command prompt on WKS01, Provide the results of the following commands in a screenshot:
nslookup 10.0.5.2 (this will perform a reverse dns query)
nslookup fw01-yourname (this will query by host name)
nslookup yourname.local (this will find the domain's DNS server)
whoami (this will show that you are logged in as DOMAIN/User
Hostname (this will show the name of your workstation)
