Server Core / Remote Administrator Tools

1. Set up username and password
2. How to Change Network Settingds
  Type "sconfig" to get to the server configuration section
    Enter 8 --> to change network settings
      Enter 1
        Enter 1 --> Set network adapter address
          Enter S
          - enter ip address, netmask, and gateway
        Enter 2, --> set DNS server, enter DNS address
      Enter 4 --> to return to server configuration
    Enter 2 --> to change Computer Name --> FS01-FORNALDES, after you change name, 
    VM will reboot
3. How to join your Active Directory Domain using sconfig's Domain/Workgroup option
  Type "sconfig"
    Enter 1
      Type D
      Name of domain to join: sarah.local
      Specify an authorized domain\user: sarah\sarah.fornaldes-adm
    VM will reboot
Deliverable 1 - Show the sconfig cmd after setting the network, computer name, update settings, and changing the domain. (example below)

4. Log in to the domain upon reboot using your adm account via the Other user option.
  When VM reboots, hit ESC until you see option to switch to other user
    user: sarah.fornaldes-adm
    pass: Password123
5. Use RSAT to manage Active Directory: 
      Go to AD02, log in using adm account
      Click 'Manage' (in the top right corner), 
      Click 'Add Roles and Features', 
      Make sure features shown in image are selected, if they are not then select the proper ones.
  Add FS01 to 'All Servers'
      Click on 'All Servers', 
      Right click on 'All Servers', 
      Click 'Add Servers'
          in the box 'Name (CN):' type 'fs',
          Click 'Find Now'
          Select 'fs01-sarah'
          Click the arrow on the screen
          (LOOK AT IMAGE FOR COMPARISON)
Deliverable 2.   Provide a screenshot that shows that from AD02, you have access to FS01 and AD02

6. How to add an organizational unit (OU)
  1. Click on 'AD DS'
  2. Right click on 'AD02-SARAH'
  3. Select 'Active Directory Users and Computers'
  4.Right click on 'sarah.local 
  5.Click on 'New', click on 'Organizational Unit'
    Name it "SYS-255"
  6.Under to SYS-255, add OU's named 'Computers' 'Users' and 'Groups' (Pretty much repeat of step 5)
    Under Groups: add a new Global security group called 'Sales-Users' (SYS255\Groups OU) (Right click, new, group)
    Under Users: add 'Bob' and 'Alice' as standard domain users (SYS255\Users OU) (Bob user = bob, Alice user = alice, pass = Password123)
    Add Alice to the Sales-Users group
      Go to groups
      Right click on 'Sales-Users'
      Click 'Properties'
      Click 'Members'
      Click 'Add'
      Type 'Alice'
      Click 'Ok'
      Click 'Apply'
      Click 'Ok'
 
7. Use RSAT to add File Services to FS01 and create a Sales Users share
On AD02, Use the Add Roles and Features option on FS01
  Click on 'All Servers'
  Right click on 'FS01-SARAH'
  Click 'Add Roles and Features'
  Click 'Next' until you get to 'Server Roles'
    Select the setting shown in the image

  1. Run the following command on fs01 to open the firewall for managing the File Server
      netsh advfirewall firewall set rule group=”Remote File Server Resource Manager Management” new enable=yes
  2. (Steps written out below) Back on AD02, Connect to FS01 using File Server Resource Manager to test the command just ran above.  Make sure to select Files and Storage Services -> Servers.
      Go to 'File and Storage'
      Click on the little arrow next to 'File and Storage'
      Click on 'Servers'
      Riight click on 'FS01-SARAH'
      Select 'File Server Resource Manager' 
Deliverable 3:  Take a screenshot of the FSRM similar to that below:

Create a new share on FS01 using Server Manager
  1. (Steps written out below) Launch Server Manager and create a New Share
      Go to 'File and Storage'
      Click on the little arrow next to 'File and Storage'
      Click on 'Shares'
        1. Right click on the blank area in the 'Shares box' and select 'New Share'
        2. Choose 'SMB Share - Quick'
        3. In the 'Share Location' tab, Select 'FS01-SARAH', leave the Select by volume options alone
        Click 'Next'
        4. In the 'Share Name' tab, 
            In the box next to 'Share name:' type 'Sales'
            (Look at image for reference)
        5. Click 'Next', Leave the Other Settings section alone, Click 'Next'
        6. (Steps written out below) For permissions, assign the Sales-Users Group created earlier with full control custom permissions to the share.  Remove "Everyone access to the Share".
            You are in the 'Permissions' tab,
            Click 'Customize permissions'
            Click the 'Share' tab
            Click 'Add'
            Click 'Select a principal'
            Type 'Sales-Users'
            Click 'Full Control'
            Click 'OK'
            Delete the 'Allow Everyone' permission entry that was originally there
            Click apply, then okay, then finish setting up the new share. (click next, create, close)
            (look at image for reference)
            
Test access for Bob and Alice. 
Deliverable 4:  Test access to the \\fs01-yourname\Sales while alternately logged into wks02 as Bob and as Alice.  Provide screenshots showing that Alice can write and read from \\fs01\Sales and that Bob cannot.

